Popp [thought]:
Help me out here, Gods.
Uh, Popp?
Come on...
What's happening? Let's go.
I knew it... I knew...
this wouldn't work...
Popp: I can't...
I can't do it.
[devious cackle]
[meancing growls]
Merle: Monsters...
There's so many of them.
Hyunckel: Get up.
Maam: Hurry!
Dai: I know you
can do this, Popp.
Just try!
It's okay.
I know you're nervous but...
Maybe if you...
If you clear your mind
and give it another shot...
Popp: There's no point.
Popp: Trust me,
Princess. It won't work.
No matter what I do,
nothing is going to
make my Insignia light up.
Popp: I've already tried
everything I can think of...
and it never glows.
Popp: I really am useless.
Maybe there isn't a power
in my soul to unleash.
I mean, the rest of you
all got yours to work
right here on the spot...
But I can't even get
this thing to flicker
when I give it my all.
I studied the Ancient Tome,
I trained as
hard as I could...
it didn't change a thing.
I was hoping when it all
came down to the wire,
I'd have what it takes...
[sniffling]
But it turns out I don't.
I'm so stupid.
I'm sorry, you guys.
I really didn't want
to let anybody down...
But I just don't have
the strength for this.
It's all...
It's all my fault.
[sobbing]
Popp...
Master Avan...
W-Why would you
give this to me?
You must've known I
wasn't worthy.
Flora: This isn't good.
Without all five Disciples,
even if Leona casts
the Kaglimmer spell,
it's not going to
have enough power.
Merle [thought]:
Don't give up, Popp...
Soldier: [terrified scream]
These creatures...
Mystvearn: [chuckling]
Zaboera: [cackling]
They've got us
completely surrounded here.
I've never seen monsters
like these before.
Merle: It doesn't make sense.
Why couldn't I
sense all of them coming?
Those Magic Capsules must have
concealed their life-force.
The enemy was luring
us into a trap all along.
Zaboera: Behold!
You will be no match
for the elite warriors
of the New Dark Army.
These these creatures
come from the Underworld-
the homeland of
King Vearn himself.
Oh, rats.
The Underworld?
And Monsters from the Underworld
are far more powerful
than the ones who inhabit
your pathetic Surface World.
I have no doubt they'll
dispose of you fools
like the worthless
trash you are.
[laughing]
Yeah? You wanna bet?
Oh, please - I don't
need to wager anything.
Destroy them all!
Oh, no. Even with Crocodine,
there's way too many of them...
We'd better go lend a hand.
Right.
Flora: Hold your positions.
It's all for nothing
if you don't finish
casting the
Kaglimmer spell...
If you break the
circle of enchantment,
whatever power you have
already conjured will vanish.
You still need Popp's light
to complete the spell...
Leave the fighting to us.
We'll buy you the time.
Hang on. Queen Flora.
I-I don't think...
You'll do it. I know Avan.
He would never choose
the wrong person.
Have some faith.
Don't worry - we'll
handle the Dark Army.
[hopeless sigh]
Popp [thought]: There's no way
they can fend off so many.
I hate to say it,
but if we don't help,
then they're done for.
Nova: Well, how
many do you think
you can handle, Crocodine?
Nova: They might be stronger
than any creature
I've ever faced...
but I think I could
take forty or fifty.
We can't let even
one reach Dai
and the others while
they're casting that spell.
That means you and
I are going to have to
give this
everything we've got.
Couldn't have put it better
myself, Hero of the North.
I did command
the Furfang Legion,
so I reckon I could
handle a hundred...
What d'you say
we go find out?
Chiu: Steady now, troops!
Chiu: It's no
time for fear...
So what if they're
from the Underworld?
Let's show these monsters
what the Beast King
Commandos are made of.
[cheering]
All right. Ursa,
Drohly, Nibbles!
You'll be our ground support.
Terry, Drack-Drack,
and Rumbles-
I want you attacking
from above...
Daigo, Spikey, and
Seari, you run around
and try to cause as much
confusion as you can...
And Gomechan,
you're our messenger.
So go tell Dai and the
others to hurry this up.
[chirp]
[chuckling]
Not to worry.
Mr. Beast is doing
exactly what he does best!
[charging roars]
Now that's what I call bravery.
Let's try to follow
his example, everyone.
Brokeena: Whoa! Alley-oop!
That's right.
We're not trying to win this.
Just make a wall
and stand strong.
The only thing
we have to do is
hold all these
creatures off until
the Disciples of Avan
finish casting their spell.
You got it?
[battle cries]
[charging roars]
Mystvearn: Not so fast.
Mystvearn: I'm not
finished with you.
It's exactly as
you said, Lon Beruk.
So long as I'm still standing,
you're stuck sparring with me-
whether you like it or not...
And I won't allow
you to interfere.
Lon Beruk [thought]: Come on.
What's taking them so long?
[chirp]
[worried chirps]
Yeah. We're doing our best.
Come on...
the others won't
be able to hold off
these monsters
for much longer.
Just hurry... We need
you to try again.
Popp, please!
Princess, I think we should
make a tactical retreat!
[gasps]
Listen, I'm useless right now.
No matter how many
times I try to do this,
it's not going to work.
We've rescued
Hyunckel and Crocodine.
If we cut our losses now,
why can't we try the
spell again once I'm ready?
I already told you, remember?
No second chances.
We've come way
too far to back down.
If we do, our enemies
will never let us
get this close to
Vearn Palace again.
This is the only opportunity
we have to cast
the Kaglimmer spell.
Popp: But I can't...
I know you feel
like there's no hope,
but if you run now, your
Insignia will never glow.
The Mysticite's light comes
from the power of your soul...
It's not about some special
technique or training.
That means the problem
is inside of you.
And if you keep
avoiding that,
eventually it's going to
break your spirit entirely.
Once that happens,
there won't be anything
you can do to change it.
Merle [thought]: Why?
Why can't Popp do it?
I know he has it in him...
He has such a kind
and honorable soul-
so what could be
getting in his way?
Popp: All right, then...
I guess I'm never
going to do it,
so give this stupid
thing to someone who can!
Wait - what?
It belongs to you.
Well... Maybe it doesn't.
I'm not like any of you.
I'm not royalty, and I wasn't
born a warrior either.
So just forget it!
Why can't he see?
Popp: Think about it...
Courage, Fortitude,
Justice, Love...
What else is there, huh?
If my soul's supposed to
have some "unique power",
I have no idea what
it is - do you?
Because if one of
you knows, I'm all ears.
If I'm missing something,
just spit it out!
I'll do whatever it takes!
Nothing? Are you all stumped?
Well, here's your answer.
I don't belong!
That isn't true.
Then throw me a line.
I'm begging you.
I don't want you all
to fail because of me...
With or without you, if we
do nothing, we're doomed.
Unless Vearn is stopped,
he'll destroy the
entire Surface World.
Hyunckel: We all
have our virtues.
If anyone doesn't
belong, it's me.
I spent years in evil,
yet now my Insignia glows.
You've spent all this
time fighting for justice
and that has to
count for something.
Yeah, he's right.
And if it weren't for you,
I wouldn't have
found the courage
to face King Vearn again.
Just listen. You always
stand up for what's right.
I know you can do this.
Believe me.
Maybe you don't see it,
but I know exactly how
strong your soul is.
You've never backed down.
I admire you
more than anyone.
Popp: I... I...
I don't care
if you admire me!
That doesn't change
a thing - get it?!
[surprised gasp]
Zaboera: [cackling]
Yes, good! Crush them!
Zaboera [thought]:
Pillars of light...
How intriguing.
The disciples must
be trying to conjure
some sort of spell
to breach the palace.
But that annoying
little brat of a Mage
appears to be having
some trouble. Hmm...
There's an idea.
If I'm able to put a stop
to their incantation and
destroy the human forces,
there's no chance of them
mounting another resistance.
And if I can do that,
it won't matter how much
Mystvearn despises me
and belittles my role
in the Dark Army.
King Vearn will finally see that
I am the more valuable servant.
Zaboera: Very well.
This should do away
with the boy quickly.
And once he's out
of the picture,
my future will
become even brighter.
C'mon! Let's give these
brutes a taste of justice!
[battling grunts]
Flora [thought]: You must
cast aside your doubts, Popp.
You know in your heart that
you're a true Disciple of Avan.
What is it with you?
Why do you always
say these awful things?
I was just... I was only
trying to tell you how I feel.
Merle [thought]:
You really don't see it?
It's because he's
in love with you, Maam.
And to find out that all you
feel for him is admiration...
He must be devastated...
I would know...
Is there... Is there
anything I can do for him?
How can I show him that
someone understands?
He may never
understand how I feel,
but that doesn't mean
I don't want to help him.
[worried gasp]
Merle [thought]: And I sense
something else, as well.
But where? Where is
it coming from?!
Merle [thought]:
It's a different evil
than the creatures
we're fighting.
[devious chuckle]
This Venom Chain has been
steeped in my Dark Power,
making a fearsome projectile
that can pierce any enemy.
As the name suggests,
it's potent enough that a
single scratch will deliver
enough toxins to
cause a painful demise.
And while it may not work
on those four
protected by Holy Light,
it will most certainly
do the trick with the mage.
Merle: Up there.
What is that?
Leona: Come on, Popp.
This isn't the time to argue.
Please, try it again.
Leona's right.
I've seen you do way
harder things before.
You can do this.
And hurry.
Come on.
[dejected chuckle]
You all think too much
of me, you know that?
Popp: Well,
here's what I think.
If I run off now, the rest
of you will figure out
some other way
to save the world.
Maam: Popp, no.
Popp: I am sorry, but
I don't have it in me.
I just don't...
And I'm not going to stand
here and watch while you
all get hurt just because
you can't accept the truth.
If that disappoints
you... well so be it.
Farewell!
Somebody, stop that attack!
Take it down!
Gotcha!
No...
Merle...
Oh, no.
Curses! You foolish
little girl.
You've gone and
ruined everything!
You bastard!
Anybody... A Heal spell...
Popp: She needs a
Heal spell right now!
Please, anyone!
I'll be right there.
Merle: No, wait.
But, you...
Forget about me.
She can't break the circle.
M-Merle...
It's all right.
I'm already beyond help.
Besides, no second chances.
You mustn't let the
Kaglimmer go to waste.
I know Popp will
be your fifth star.
I've sensed
what's in his soul.
But, Merle... why did you...
Y-You're going to...
Why would you do
something like this?
Because I saw you.
You were in so much pain.
And I - I guess I
just wanted to help.
Then this weapon... it was
heading straight for you.
It all happened so fast...
I was the only one
close enough to stop it.
Popp: You didn't have to
throw yourself in the way...
Not for a coward like me.
It shouldn't be you...
I'm the one who deserves this.
Why? Why throw your life away
for someone born to lose?!
You idiot!
Seriously, Popp.
You are so dense.
Merle's the one who believes
in you more than anyone.
And you know why?
It's because she loves you!
Princess...
How - how could you?
I was... I was going to
tell him that myself one day.
I'm sorry.
No, that's...
That's not true.
I doubt I'd ever
be able to say it.
I don't... I never
had the courage.
Merle: But it's true, Popp.
I've always loved you, ever
since the moment we first met.
You always act
like this bumbling fool,
but inside you're strong
and full of courage.
There's just
something about you.
No matter what you're facing,
whether you're sad or afraid...
In the end, you always
find a way to overcome it.
For someone as shy as I am,
you've always been
such an inspiration...
But I... I was too
afraid to tell you.
I followed the party so
I could be closer to you...
but as time went on,
I realized I could
never say how I felt.
I was... I was so afraid
that it would ruin
the friendship we have...
that you wouldn't
feel the same way.
I always hated how
cowardly it made me feel.
Merle: But not anymore.
I had the courage to save you
- to do something useful.
Merle!
This doesn't look good, Popp.
I think that
she's been poisoned,
and that wound
is far too deep.
Even a Fullheal
spell couldn't...
Popp: I don't care, we
need to try it. Please...
Listen...
Would you grant me one
final request, Popp?
It's a little selfish of me,
and I already
know the answer...
But would you... Would you tell
me who you're in love with?
It's okay, I know it isn't me.
I've felt it for
a long while now.
But, I... I want to hear
you say it for yourself.
That way, I can let you
go knowing it's true.
Merle: And then, maybe...
maybe when I come
back in the next life,
I can be someone
as brave as you are.
Someone who's not afraid
to say how they feel.
[pained gasp]
I'm so sorry, Merle.
You're right.
I... I-I, uh...
I-It's Maam. I'm in
love with Maam!
Popp: My Insignia of Avan...
It's glowing!
But, why would...
What made it work?
Popp [thought]:
Could it be...
I don't... I never
had the courage.
Popp [thought]: No way.
The power of my soul...
has been Courage all along?
Leona [thought]: So it
wasn't Dai after all...
They say courage is found in
unlikely places... but Popp?
Popp [thought]: Both of us were
hiding things, weren't we?
I've been too afraid
of ruining things
with Maam to tell
her how I feel.
I guess you
were right, Merle.
You really saw my soul...
Popp: No, Merle.
Come back. Please...
Just open your eyes!
C'mon. You can't die.
You... You can't!
I won't let you...
Not for someone like me!
Wait, Popp's a Mage,
but somehow...
He's able to
use healing energy?
Just like...
Like a Sage does!
Narrator: Thanks
to Merle's insight,
Popp has awakened
the power of his soul,
and with the circle
of enchantment complete,
the Disciples of Avan
successfully cast
the Kaglimmer Spell.
As the protective field
surrounding Vearn Palace falls,
Dai and the others prepare for
their final confrontation...
but inside the flying fortress,
an adversary awaits
who will take even the
Dark King himself by surprise.
Learn their identity on
the next episode of
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"The Last Challenge."